the graph integration page (#966)
rsksmart/devportal: content/rsk-devportal/kb/the-graph-integration.md

---
menu_order: 880
menu_title: The Graph Integration
title: 'How to use The Graph on Rootstock'
description: 'The Graph is a decentralized protocol for indexing and querying blockchain data'
tags: knowledge-base, the grpah, protocol, rootstock, defi, decentralized
layout: 'rsk'
---

![TheGraph](/assets/img/kb/the-graph/logo.png) 

[TheGraph](https://thegraph.com/) is a decentralized protocol for indexing and querying blockchain data. For more information about it go [here](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/about/)

# Rootstock Subgraph

> We develop Subgraph Boilerplate for [Rootstock] (https://github.com/rsksmart/rootstock-subgraph). This solution is forked from [Sovryn Subgraph](https://github.com/DistributedCollective/Sovryn-subgraph). This project aims to set up the bricks for helping the comunity to have their subgraph implementation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have developed a Subgraph Boilerplate for [Rootstock] (https://github.com/rsksmart/rootstock-subgraph). This solution was forked from [Sovryn Subgraph](https://github.com/DistributedCollective/Sovryn-subgraph). 

This project aims to set up the bricks for easy implementation of a subgraph for the Rootstock Community. 
```

> Subgraph for Rootstock contains an example contract, RootstockEvent. It is deployed on Tesnet [here](https://explorer.testnet.rsk.co/address/0x8b73111467242aa8829bb17765718c3749df472b)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The subgraph for Rootstock contains an example contract, `RootstockEvent`. It is deployed on [Testnet](https://explorer.testnet.rsk.co/address/0x8b73111467242aa8829bb17765718c3749df472b)
```

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.16;

contract RootstockEvent {    
    event Log(address indexed sender, string message);

    function test() public {
        emit Log(msg.sender, "Hello Rootstockers!");        
    }
}
```

> This subgraph contains logic for transforming and storing blockchain events, and serving up a publicly available graphQL API for this data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This subgraph contains the logic for transforming and storing blockchain events, and serving up a publicly available graphQL API for this data.
```

> Please note that this is still an early version of the subgraph. While it has undergone testing, we are aware there may be some bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note that this is an early version of the subgraph. While it has undergone testing, we are aware that there may be some bugs.
```
